#Virtual Election Booth: Report
Group Member: Jingfei Shi

##Final Design Protocol
All communications are carried out under SSL. Digital signatures are signed with the CLA/CTF's private keys, and verified with their public keys, respectively.

Registration:

	Voter -> CLA: { first name || last name || secret }
	CLA -> Voter: { acknowledgment || validation number }
	CLA -> CTF: { validation number || digital signature }

Voting:

	Voter -> CTF: { random identification number || validation number || vote }
	CTF -> Voter: { acknowledgment }
	CTF -> CLA: { validation number || digital signature }
	CLA -> CTF: { full name || digital signature }

Election Result:

	CTF -> Public:
		{ Number of votes for each party ||
		  For each party: list of supporters' random identification numbers ||
		  List of full names of people who voted }

##Implementation
The final implementation is a web application written in Python and served with Flask, a lightweight Python web framework. The CLA and CTF each has a flask instance, which translates to a server at a specified hostname and port number.

	ctf.run(host="0.0.0.0", port=4321, debug=True, threaded=True, ssl_context=context)

Flask can map functions to URLs, which can be used as endpoints for communication. The functions can also render templates and output information to a HTML page. For example, the voter can fill out a form that sends a POST request to the `/validation` endpoint in the CTF. The CTF then takes the information, determines the proper response, and displays that as an HTML page at this endpoint.

The HTML pages are styled using the Foundation front-end framework, which includes preset CSS and javascript files. This is very useful to set up aesthetically appealing forms and buttons for the voters. All of the HTML files are stored in the `templates` folder, and the style files are in the `static` folder.

The `menu.py` is just an additional server that functions as the user interface. It contains links to the CLA, CTF, and the result page. There are two booleans in the file that enables/disables the links. They are used to indicate whether or not registration and voting is over.

###Secure Connection
The CLA and CTF both have a pair of public and private keys. They are generated using the `genrsa` command in the OpenSSL library. Similarly, the self signed certificates are also created to use for SSL connection.

In the python OpenSSL library, a context object must be defined. In this implementation, it is defined as using the `SSLv23_METHOD` and is associated with the certificates.

```
#SSL setup
context = SSL.Context(SSL.SSLv23_METHOD)
context.use_privatekey_file("./keys/key.pem")
context.use_certificate_file("./keys/cert.pem")
```
The context is included in the run method of the Flask server to ensure SSL connection.

###CSRF Protection
The forms on the web application are designed to prevent CSRF attacks. A hidden field in the form contains the CSRF token, which is a random string of characters generated by the CLA/CTF.

	<input name="csrf_token" type="hidden" value="{{ csrf }}">

On the server side, the token is stored as a global token that is only valid for the current session.

	ctf.jinja_env.globals["csrf"] = generate_csrf_token() #global csrc token

##Performance Measurement
This implementation meets all of the requirements listed in the project description. More specifically:

**Only authorized voters can vote:**
Voters can only register if they are "pre-registered", meaning their names and "secret" (unique identifier code) are already in the CLA system, and that they already know their "secret". When they send a request for registration, both names and "secret" must match the entry in the CLA in order for them to receive a validation number. When they cast their ballot in the CTF, only those with a validation number given to them by the CLA can vote. All other users are rejected.

**No one can vote more than once:** The CTF keeps track of whether a registered voter have already voted. If a voter tries to vote more than once, the CTF will not allow the vote to go through.

**No one can determine for whom anyone else voted:** The CTF does not associate full names with validation numbers. When then results are published, only the random identification numbers are printed with their voting choices. Thus unless someone finds out another person's random identification number (which is outside of the security scope of this project), they cannot determine for whom that person voted.

**No one can duplicate anyone else’s votes:** There is no way for someone to log in as another person in the CTF to view, change, or duplicate their votes. If someone has already "logged in" to vote, the CTF will disallow them to log in in again.

**Every voter can make sure that his vote has been taken into account in the final tabulation:** In the results page, the random identification numbers are printed under the party they voted for. So if a user has voted, he can make sure his vote has been taken into account by looking for his identification number under his voted party.

**Everyone knows who voted and who didn’t:** The results page also prints out a list of full names of people who have participated in the election (but they are not associated with whom they have voted for). Everyone will know who have voted and who have not by looking at this list.
